---
layout: post
title: 1/24/2026 Updates on the Augustus set plus Protein Output Comparision
---
This week I was given another data set by Dr. Roberts which I worked with in conjunction with the Augustus Set. This set was showing which protiens were being produced significantly more often by one or more of the star fish species when they were exposed to V. pectincidia as opposed to when they weren't. My goal in relation to this program was to try and find protiens related to immune function which D. Imbracata began to produce more of when exposed to Vibrios pectencidia, and which were only being produced by D. Imbracata as opposed to the other starfish species. In order to do that, I cleaned up the program which I'd begun to write for comparing the results of BLASTP between two of the starfish species which I'd oringinally replaced with an Excel work flow. I avoided using the Excel workflow directly as this data set didn't have the UniProt IDs which I've been using in that process, instead it only had the base means, which did not have the ".t#" ending produced by BLASTP, meaning that I had to make the program compare only the part of each base mean before that extra tag, which just so happened to be easier to do with my own program than with Excel. This program can be found on my Github, perhaps in the future it would be interesting to create a version of it which read data from a specific column rather than requiring files with just the Base Means to better integrate it into my work flow. Anyhow, after fixing and running the software, I used an Excel formula, similar to the one I use to compare the UniProt-readable protien IDs, in order to match the base means of protiens which were produced at a higher rate in D. imbracata when exposed to V. pectincidia, and then I compared those base resulting IDs with the IDs for protiens which were only being produced in significant amounts by D. imbracata and not any of the other starfish. I put the resulting codes into UniProt's ID mapping software, and when I searched the resulting proteins with the Gene Ontology tag for immune responses (GO:0006955), I found 15 resulting protiens which I am now investigating. Additionally, I asked Dr. Roberts about why this set is labeled as Augustus, that happens to be related to a software used to process this genetic data earlier on, but I am keeping it as my way of refering to this set for now because then it matches the origninal files related to this set, and gives me a quick way to refer to it.
